Cloud common - describe Regions and Availability Zones closes #193 (#475)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/cloud/modules/regions-and-availability-zone/README.md

# Regions and Availability zones

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
	- [Availability zones](#availability-zones)
	- [Regions](#regions)
- [Tasks](#tasks)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

*Availability zones* are tightly coupled (related) to *Regions*, hence this module will cover them both alongside each other.

### Availability zones

> **Availability zone** (**AZ**) is a physical location within a *region*, each *AZ* is unique. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Availability zone** (**AZ**) is a physical location within a *region*, each *AZ* is unique. 
```

> One or more data centres make up one *AZ* and has it's own independent power supply, cooling and networking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One or more data centres make up one *AZ* and has its own independent power supply, cooling and networking.
```

> *AZ* are independent for a reason, which is to make sure that datacentre failure would be recoverable through copying everything over to another  datacentre within the same *AZ*, this action is called **zone redundancy**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*AZ* are independent so as to maintain **zone redundancy**.

*Zone redundancy* ensures that a datacentre failure would be recoverable through copying everything over to another datacentre within the same *AZ*.
```

> *Zone redundancy* gives the protection from single point of failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Zone redundancy* provides protection from a single point of failure.
```

> Each cloud provider will be guaranteeing a certain up-time of their VMs, in most cases reaching 99.99% or close to it, which will be described in the **S**ervice **L**ayer **A**greement (**SLA**)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Cloud provider will be guaranteeing a certain percentage of uptime for their VMs - in most cases reaching ~99.99%.

This pledge is usually described in the **S**ervice **L**ayer **A**greement (**SLA**).
```

> An additional benefit of *AZ* is that it has good low latency replication next to high availability, which allows you to make sure the mission-critical applications are running without issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An additional benefit of *AZ* is that it has good low latency replication next to high availability, which allows you to make sure that mission-critical applications are running without issues.
```

> One of potential use cases where *AZ* comes into play would be a scenario where you would like to make sure that your database is replicated in other *AZ* for increased resilience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of potential use cases where *AZ* comes into play would be a scenario where you would like to make sure that your database is replicated in another *AZ* for increased resilience. 
```

This would ensure that if one *AZ* goes down due to some accident, you wouldn't lose your data as it would be available within another *AZ*.

### Regions

A **region** is made up of multiple *AZ* that are interconnected with a low latency network.

> In order to maximise resiliency, each *region* has multiple *AZ*, the number depends on the cloud provider, but the typical number is three *AZ* per *region*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to maximise resilience, each *region* has multiple *AZ*.

 The number of *AZ* each region contains largely depends on the Cloud provider.
 
 Typically, there are three *AZ* per *region*.
```

*Regions* give you the benefit of deploying your application in multiple *regions* to increase resilience and reduce latency.

> In a scenario where you have half of your user base in one *region*, and another half in a different *region* deploying to both would give the benefits of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a scenario where you have half of your user base in one *region*, and another half in a different *region*, deploying to both would give several benefits:
```

- reduced latency
- increased resilience

> Additionally scaling could be set up for each region separately so that it could react to the demands in traffic for each of the regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, scaling could be set up for each region separately so that each region could react to their own specific demands in traffic.
```

![regions and zones](https://imgur.com/KWcEOGl.jpg)

## Tasks

> Try answering the following questions (this will involve research):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This task is research-based.*

Try answering the following questions:
```

> **Find out what is the typical number of *AZ* within a region for the following cloud providers:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Find out what the typical number of *AZ* within a region is, for the following Cloud providers:**
```

- Google cloud
- AWS
- Azure

> **Who has the most regions currently?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Which Cloud provider currently has the most regions?**
```
